Fix missing/outdated infos about plugins init method (#374)
kuzzleio/documentation: src/core/1/guides/essentials/store-access-data/index.md

---
code: false
type: page
title: Store and access your data
order: 350
---

# Store and access your data

> Kuzzle uses [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch) as a document-oriented NoSQL database.  

Author: :warning: Elasticsearch is not a database, it's a search engine. Distinguishing the two is very important, as databases have very strict requirements that ES does not (completely) offer.

Reviewer: This is why I said "uses ... as a document-oriented NoSQL database". What do you think if I add a warning telling that Elasticsearch is not a really database ?

All documents, whether internal documents such as `User`, `Profile` or `Role` or user documents, are stored in Elasticsearch indexes.  

Kuzzle's storage capacities are therefore directly linked to Elasticsearch's capacities and limits.  

## Database organization

There are 4 hierarchical levels in data storage: 
  - indexes
  - collections
  - documents
  - fields

An index brings together several collections, which in turn contains several documents, each of which is composed of several fields.  
![database organization](./database-organization.png)

> ### Comparison with SQL database

Author: SQL is a querying language, not an architecture:

```suggestion
### Comparison with a relational database
```

> We can compare the organization of NoSQL data storage with a traditional SQL database such as PostgreSQL for example.

Author: Since ES is not a database, we have to take a few precautions to prevent confusion.
Also, beware: there are several types of NoSQL databases, not all being document-oriented.

Here is a proposal:

```suggestion
Even if Elasticsearch is not, strictly speaking, a database, the way it stores data is very similar to that of document-oriented databases.  

If you're more familiar with the way relational databases store data, here is how it compares:
```

If you do apply this suggestion, then the table title below should be changed to something like this:

`| Document-oriented storage | Relational databases storage |`

| Elasticsearch (NoSQL) | Postgres (SQL) |
| --------------------- | -------------- | 
| index | database | 
| collection | table |
| document | line |
| field | column |

> Elaticsearch has 3 major differences compared to a traditional SQL database:

Author: There are many, many more differences between document-oriented dabatases and relational ones.

```suggestion
Comparing document-oriented storages with relational databases would require a more thorough analysis, but for the purposes of this guide, we shall reduce the list of differences to the following 3 items:
```

>   - the unique identifier of the documents (`_id`) is stored outside the content of the documents,

Author: ```suggestion
  - Documents are identified with a unique identifier, which is stored separately from the content of documents (compared to primary/foreign keys, stored alongside the data they identify),
```

>   - no advanced joint system,

Author: ```suggestion
  - no advanced join system,
```

>   - a default delay between writing a document and its availability via the method [document:search](/core/1/api/controllers/document/search).

Author: I'm a bit torn about that one: in this part, we're discussing about the differences between document-oriented databases, and relational databases.

Thing is, this item is because of the way Elasticsearch makes new data available to search requests, it's not related to the way it stores data.

Proposal: move that part elsewhere, because I think that it's important to mention it, and instead mention, I don't know... maybe the mapping system?

> All these differences should be taken into account when modeling your [database](/core/1/guides/essentials/database-mappings) and your application.  

Author: ```suggestion
All these differences should be taken into account when modeling your [data model](/core/1/guides/essentials/database-mappings) and your application.  
```

> ## Create indexes and collections

Author: ```suggestion
## Creating indexes and collections
```

  "index": "nyc-open-data",
  "volatile": null,
  "result": {
    "acknowledged": true,
    "shards_acknowledged": true,
    "index": "nyc-open-data"
  }
}
</pre>
</details>

Then a `yellow-taxi` collection in this index:

::: warning
It is recommended to specify a [data mapping](/core/1/guides/essentials/database-mappings) when creating a collection so that its content can correctly be indexed by Elasticsearch.
:::

```bash
curl -X PUT localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi?pretty
```

<details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle API answer</summary>
<pre>
{
  "requestId": "1d5b7afe-9d81-4c0e-92bc-aa57b24c35eb",
  "status": 200,
  "error": null,
  "controller": "collection",
  "action": "create",
  "collection": "yellow-taxi",
  "index": "nyc-open-data",
  "volatile": null,
  "result": {
    "acknowledged": true
  }
}
</pre>
</details>

::: info
It is also possible to define in advance a set of indexes and collections, then load them at the start of Kuzzle (option [--mappings]((/core/1/guides/essentials/cli/#start)), via the [CLI](/core/1/guides/essentials/cli/#loadMappings) or with the API method [admin:loadMappings] (/core/1/api/controllers/admin/loadmappings)
:::

> ## Write documents

Author: ```suggestion
## Writing documents
```

> The Kuzzle API offers several methods to create, modify or delete documents in the database.  

Author: ```suggestion
The Kuzzle API offers several methods to create, modify or delete documents in its storage space.  
```

> Each of these methods has its own specificities, we can distinguish two main families of methods, those acting on a document and those acting on multiple documents (AKA `m*` methods).

Author: (deleteByQuery does not start with a "m")

```suggestion
Each of these methods has its own specificities, we can distinguish two main families of methods: those acting on a document and those acting on multiple documents.
```

Methods acting on a single document:
  - [document:create](/core/1/api/controllers/document/create): creates a new document

>   - [document:createOrReplace](/core/1/api/controllers/document/create): creates a new document or replace an existing document

Author: ```suggestion
  - [document:createOrReplace](/core/1/api/controllers/document/create): creates a new document or replaces an existing one
```

  - [document:delete](/core/1/api/controllers/document/delete): deletes a document

>   - [document:replace](/core/1/api/controllers/document/replace): replaces an existing docucment by a new one

Author: ```suggestion
  - [document:replace](/core/1/api/controllers/document/replace): replaces an existing document
```

  - [document:update](/core/1/api/controllers/document/update): updates fields in an existing document

Methods acting on multiple documents
  - [document:deleteByQuery](/core/1/api/controllers/document/delete-by-query): deletes documents matching an Elasticsearch query
  - [document:mCreate](/core/1/api/controllers/document/m-create): creates multiple documents
  - [document:mCreateOrReplace](/core/1/api/controllers/document/m-create-or-replace): creates or replaces multiple documents
  - [document:mDelete](/core/1/api/controllers/document/m-delete): deletes multiple documents
  - [document:mReplace](/core/1/api/controllers/document/m-replace): replaces multiple documents
  - [document:mUpdate](/core/1/api/controllers/document/m-update): updates fields of multiple documents

::: info 

> The [bulk controller](/core/1/api/controllers/bulk) also has low-level methods for writing documents to the database.

Author: ```suggestion
The [bulk controller](/core/1/api/controllers/bulk) features low-level methods for injecting documents in collections.
```

:::

For example, to create a new document in our index:

```bash
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "driver": "liia", "arriveAt": "2019-07-26"  }' http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi/document-uniq-id/_create?pretty
```

> <details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle API answer</summary>

Author: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle's answer</summary>
```

<pre>
{
  "requestId": "e146e2a5-ff5b-4b6f-a603-8cde43f353fe",
  "status": 200,
  "error": null,
  "controller": "document",
  "action": "create",
  "collection": "yellow-taxi",
  "index": "nyc-open-data",
  "volatile": null,
  "result": {
    "_index": "nyc-open-data",
    "_type": "yellow-taxi",
    "_id": "document-uniq-id", // Document ID
    "_version": 1,
    "result": "created",
    "created": true,
    "_source": {                   // Document body
      "driver": "liia",
      "arriveAt": "2019-07-26",
      "_kuzzle_info": {            // Kuzzle metadata
        "author": "-1",
        "createdAt": 1561443009768,
        "updatedAt": null,
        "updater": null,
        "active": true,
        "deletedAt": null
      }
    }
  }
}
</pre>
</details>

> Using the [document:update] method (/core/1/api/controllers/document/update) allows us to add a new field while keeping the old ones:

Author: broken markdown

```suggestion
Using the [document:update](/core/1/api/controllers/document/update) method allows us to add a new field while keeping the old ones:
```

```bash
curl -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ "car": "rickshaw"  }' http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi/document-uniq-id/_update?pretty
```

> <details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle API answer</summary>

Author: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle's answer</summary>
```

<pre>
{
  "requestId": "1be6c9e6-2626-4f85-ad64-d1cc248c7bee",
  "status": 200,
  "error": null,
  "controller": "document",
  "action": "update",
  "collection": "yellow-taxi",
  "index": "nyc-open-data",
  "volatile": null,
  "result": {
    "_index": "nyc-open-data",
    "_type": "yellow-taxi",
    "_id": "document-uniq-id",
    "_version": 2,
    "result": "updated"
  }
}
</pre>
</details>

> ## Read documents

Author: ```suggestion
## Reading documents
```

There are two ways to retrieve documents:
  - using the document unique identifiers,
  - by performing a search with an Elasticsearch query.

> ### Get documents

Author: ```suggestion
### Getting documents
```

To retrieve a document when you know its unique identifier, you have to use the [document:get](/core/1/api/controllers/document/get) or the [document:mGet](/core/1/api/controllers/document/m-get) method.

> For example, to retrieve the documents we created previously:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, to retrieve the documents we created in the previous examples:
```

```bash
curl http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi/document-uniq-id?pretty
```

> <details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle API answer</summary>

Author: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle's answer</summary>
```

<pre>
{
  "requestId": "62af64c8-5dc6-48c1-942b-2604bf97686e",
  "status": 200,
  "error": null,
  "controller": "document",
  "action": "get",
  "collection": "yellow-taxi",
  "index": "nyc-open-data",
  "volatile": null,
  "result": {
    "_index": "nyc-open-data",
    "_type": "yellow-taxi",
    "_id": "document-uniq-id",
    "_version": 2,
    "found": true,
    "_source": {
      "driver": "liia",
      "arriveAt": "2019-07-26",
      "_kuzzle_info": {
        "author": "-1",
        "createdAt": 1561443222474,
        "updatedAt": 1561443279526,
        "updater": "-1",
        "active": true,
        "deletedAt": null
      },
      "car": "rickshaw"
    }
  }
}
</pre>
</details>

> ### Search documents

Author: ```suggestion
### Searching documents
```

> The document search is performed using the [Elasticsearch Query DSL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.6/query-dsl.html).  

Author: ```suggestion
Searching documents is performed using the [Elasticsearch Query DSL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.6/query-dsl.html).  
```

As Elasticsearch is an indexing engine designed for document search, it offers a wide range of advanced search options like [geo queries](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.6/geo-queries.html), [full text queries](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.6/full-text-queries.html), [aggregations](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.6/search-aggregations.html), and more.  

Requests must be made through Kuzzle using the [document:search](/core/1/api/controllers/document/search) method.

::: warning
When a document is created or modified, its latest version is not immediately available in the results of a search.  
First, you have to wait until Elasticsearch has finished updating its index.  

> It is possible to force the waiting time for the index update with the parameter `refresh=wait_for` or by forcing it for each writing at the index level with[index:setAutoRefresh](/core/1/api/controllers/index/set-auto-refresh).

Author: `refresh:wait_for` does not force an indexation, it merely makes ES wait for the indexation to finish before sending an answer

::: 

For example, to retrieve documents between the ages of 25 and 28:

```bash
# First create some documents
for i in {18..42}; do; curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{ \"driver\": \"driver-$i\", \"age\": $i  }" http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi/_create &; sleep 0.05; done

# Search for drivers between 25 and 28 years
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{ 
  "query": { 
    "range": { 
      "age": { "gte": 25, "lte": 28 } 
    } 
  }  
}
' http://localhost:7512/nyc-open-data/yellow-taxi/_search?pretty

```

> <details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle API answer</summary>

Author: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Click to see Kuzzle's answer</summary>
```

            "createdAt": 1561444837239,
            "updatedAt": null,
            "updater": null,
            "active": true,
            "deletedAt": null
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "nyc-open-data",
        "_type": "yellow-taxi",
        "_id": "AWuNXWgQ6MDMyQmSeEuU",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "driver": "driver-28",
          "age": 28,
          "_kuzzle_info": {
            "author": "-1",
            "createdAt": 1561444837391,
            "updatedAt": null,
            "updater": null,
            "active": true,
            "deletedAt": null
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "nyc-open-data",
        "_type": "yellow-taxi",
        "_id": "AWuNXWer6MDMyQmSeEuS",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "driver": "driver-26",
          "age": 26,
          "_kuzzle_info": {
            "author": "-1",
            "createdAt": 1561444837290,
            "updatedAt": null,
            "updater": null,
            "active": true,
            "deletedAt": null
          }
        }
      }
    ],
    "total": 4,
    "max_score": 1
  }
}
</pre>
</details>

## What Now?

> - Exploit the full capabilites of Elasticsearch with [Database Mappings](/core/1/guides/essentials/database-mappings)

Author: ES is not a db

```suggestion
- Exploit the full capabilites of Elasticsearch with [Data Mappings](/core/1/guides/essentials/database-mappings)
```
